They were sitting together him and her, talking. I know not what they spoke of, but he could make her smile and they were close. Then, a bit hesitantly, he leaned over and kissed her. He smiled, she looked at him and spoke. She said something back and kissed him. Halfway torn between a smile and a kiss, it wasn't full. But the next one certainly was. As they gave into their passion, she moved from next to him to sitting sideways on him; her arms draped around his neck. As she pulled away from a kiss, she let her tongue gently lick his lip. He understood, as he ran his hands up her back and into her hair, he kissed her with the passion he had concealed for years. His and her tongue met and their embrace grew tighter, and she let out a soft moan.

She pulled at his shirt as she arced her back, pulling at it as he pulled her hair back to begin kissing her neck. Soft murmurs of happiness drifted from her parted lips. She pulled his shirt up and over his head, having her turn at his neck. He moaned quietly as she kissed his sensitive spots and twisted so he could lay on her. She smiled as she brought him down with her, still intent on keeping his noises going. They excited her and she wanted him just as badly as he wanted her. She ran her hand down the hairs on his chest, following them down to his pants. But before she got there his hand was over hers, bringing it up over her head to where her other was already entwined with his. Her hands in one hand, his other caressed her side. Moving over the soft curve of her breast on its way to remove her blouse.

He lifted her shirt slowly, with both hands, kissing as he lifted. A kiss on the stomach, lift a little more, a kiss a little higher. It was driving her wild, her hands no longer restrained she grabbed at his hair, seeking to pull his face to hers so she could quell her longings for his lips. But he resisted, pulling her shirt up to her face he kissed in between her breasts and ran his tongue up to her neck. Giving a gentle nibble and kiss to each side of the neck before pulling the shirt completely off her.

With no shirt in the way she pulled him against her, kissing him once again while the heat of their bodies melded. She turned and rolled her way on top of him, smiling at him as he lay there. Hands running down his chest again, she began kissing his stomach. Doing to him what he had done to her, but when she ended near his neck she nestled against him and unclasped her bra. He didn't look down at them but instead steadily gazed into her eyes as his hands began to knead and massage her breasts. She let out a small gasp as he tweaked her nipples lightly. He asked her if it had felt good with his eyes. Her response was a kiss. She pulled away from him, getting up and taking off her pants before seductively moving past him.

He gazed at her, her beautiful figure, from her long brunette hair to her black panties, and he reached out, gently cradling her bottom with his hands as he rose to get behind her. Arcing over her, he pulled her head sideways to kiss her. She arced her back and and rubbed her rear against his pants, feeling his longing for her.  He kissed again and she turned and pulled his pants downward. He kissed her again and felt her hands across his chest as he pulled off his pants completely. Her hands moved from his front, to his back scraping her nails down his back. He gasped in pleasure, and got on top of her, rubbing his hips against her and teasing her.

She loved the pressure of his body against hers and how their hands explored each other. She might have had thoughts about how his lovemaking would be before, but nothing compared to how perfectly in sync they were. He tested, and listened to her sounds, finding things she loved that she didn't she loved. Their bodies moved with and against each other in rhythm. Bringing them ever closer to a pinnacle of ecstasy, he'd get her closer and closer and right as she thought she might scream, he'd bring her down again. Then edge her closer and closer again. Barely thinking she grabbed him and rolled so she could be on top, be in control of this insane ride. She rode him like he had her, watching his face and motions, feeling him move inside and ever edging him closer, but always backing down. Carrying on like this until they were both in such a state that they could no longer control themselves. Sitting up and pulling her with him, he lifted her up and then down again as they both moaned and screamed together, culminating in one euphoric moment where they looked into each others eyes and for a moment, shared a single soul. Everything they were, everything they are, and everything they would be was in that moment. And then after, they collapsed in a state of bliss, still folded together, perfectly relaxed and lovingly juxtaposed. They kissed again, gently letting the most simple and caring 3 words fall out of their mouths at the same time. They smiled as they realized that, and moved closer together and fell asleep.
