It is warm in the shower. The steam rises above you. The hot water against your back soothes your muscles and as you relax the curtain is pulled aside. stepping in, my hands find themselves to your waist and pull you towards me. Lifting your chin towards me with one hand, my lips meet yours and your arms wrap round me. Pulling you closer my hand runs through your wet hair and I lean to kiss your neck. Your hands reach upwards to my chest and find my nipples. Smiling mischievously you tease them, even as I smile and kiss you again. Reaching down my hand comes between your legs and begins massaging you gently. My tongue meets yours and my other hand slaps your bottom playfully.  

Smiling, you place your arms around my neck and pull me into your kiss. Turning you I pull your hair back and kiss around your ear. With the curve of your toned ass pressed against me you can feel my growing arousal. My hand reaches again, parting your legs and stroking your button. The other begins kneading and squeezing a breast tenderly. you hands reach back and find me. Beginning to stroke as well. Not to be taken so easily, you turn and push me against the shower wall. Smiling as you pull my head to one side by my hair and begin nibbling on my neck. Moaning softly I insert a finger gently inside, letting it spin in and out, winding in circles as my palm rubs the outsides of your clit. Your hand urges my passion to flow and as I become harder you kisser harder and with more tongue. Swirling yours in mine and biting my lips as you pull away.  

Taking your hand in mine I spin you against the shower wall. Hungrily kissing and seeking your tongue out. Kissing your top lip, smiling and then your bottom lip. I look at you as your eyes meet mine and your hands scratch down my back, a gasp escapes me as I raise my head and close my eyes feeling the shivers run through me. As I begin to open them I feel your mouth take me. Gasping I pull you back up not wanting to have all the fun. Holding both hands in mine I drop to my knees and kiss up your leg, running my hand against the water trickling down your body. Letting my nails gently scrape at you. Sending tingles up your body. You feel my mouth kiss your inner thigh then bite gently before my tongue sinks between your legs and your hands curl themselves into my hair. Holding me in place as you grind your muff against my mouth.  

My hands squeeze your ass as my tongue traces figure 8's across and around your clit while my fingers plunge inside again. Curling against your g spot in tandem with my tongues tremors against you. Your hand reaches down and finds my free one, bringing it to your breast before your mouth. Sucking gently on my finger playfully, you see me becoming excited again. Pulling on my hair you bring me up for a kiss and stroke me again. Reaching out of the shower, a condom appears. Taking it in hand and placing it over the head, you roll the condom over me while taking my arousal into your mouth. Coming up my hands wrap around your waist and you feel me at the waiting center of your legs. Pushing against me you feel me slide in. Smiling and trying not to fall over we begin to move slowly up and down. 

The slow pace begins to quicken as the footing in the wet shower begins to become more familiar. My mouth is on yours, your tongue is drawn into my mouth by sucking and then you pull me into yours. Holding onto one breast and with one hand cupping your chin we kiss and our rhythm increases. You can feel me sliding in and out, smiling. I pull out and turn you around whispering in your ear to trust me as I slide myself back in while taking the shower head off the hook and bringing it in between your legs. You feel the water massaging you, combined with the pleasure from penetration moans escape your mouth. Pinching your nipples with my free hand, I kiss you as you turn your head towards me. Eyes closed in the moment. With your hands pushed against the wall you begin to push back against me with each thrust. Riding me hard and thrusting me deeper and deeper inside of you. 

A hard slap on your ass makes you yell out for a moment before turning and grinning. Reaching with one hand behind you and finding a nipple. Teasing it with flicks of your fingers, you're rewarded with murmors of pleasure escaping form behind you. Bending, you thrust backwards before turning and bringing your body against mine again. Your hands cupping my face, you pull me into a long kiss as I aim my shaft towards your womanhood. My hands reach under your cheeks and lift your legs up. Sliding in again and beginning to ryhmically pulse against you. My thumb strokes your clit as each thrust brings more pleasure to you. Kissing you again, your hands fall from my face and against my chest. Rubbing your palms up and down my chest you see my smile widen and my head turn away as I moan your name softly.