### The issue with Section 309

Disclosure!

- I do not have a degree in law
- I believe that some surveillance is beneficial as a whole
- I believe that you should be able to be anonymous if you want to be

Today I read [this post about a bill that just got
passed](http://thefreethoughtproject.com/breaking-congress-secretly-okd-nsa-spying-domestic-criminal-cases-focused-torture/)
in it, Justin Amash, a member of congress, states the following: 

<blockquote>
"Last night, the Senate passed an amended version of the intelligence
reauthorization bill with a new Sec. 309—one the House never has
considered. Sec. 309 authorizes “the acquisition, retention, and
dissemination” of nonpublic communications, including those to and from
U.S. persons. The section contemplates that those private communications
of Americans, obtained without a court order, may be transferred to
domestic law enforcement for criminal investigations."
</blockquote>

Reading that and the rest of the letter, I figured, well, can it really
be this bad? Is it just stirring up some simple language or a possible
misunderstanding? Perhaps the tinfoil hat is too tight on this one.

So I went ahead and read through
[Sec 309 of the bill](http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-113hr4681eas/pdf/BILLS-113hr4681eas.pdf) 
and guess what. 


**He's right** 


Sec 309, paragraph 1 says: 

<blockquote>
Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act each head of 
an element of the intelligence community shall adopt procedures approved by the 
Attorney General for such element that ensure compliance with the requirements 
of paragraph (3).
</blockquote>

So we need our heads and say, ok, so what? In two years they need to
comply with some requirements, what's the problem there? So then we look
at the mentioned paragraph:

<blockquote>
the procedures the 
attorney general sets forth shall apply to any intelligence collection
activity not otherwise authorized by court order sub-poena, or similar
legal process that is reasonably anticipated to result in the
acquisition of a covered communication to or from a United States person
and shall permit the acquisition, retention, and dissemination of
covered communications subject
</blockquote>

A covered communication, by definition, is any _nonpublic_ telephone or
electronic communication aquired without consent of anyone involved in
said message. This also includes messages "in electronic storage", aka,
your facebook messages, your emails, any thing you can really think of.
And this but here says that the procedures will apply to intelligence
collected that are **not otherwise authorized** by court. 

This means any data that the NSA or any "intelligence element", even by
accident, can be saved for up to 5 years. But here's the real kicker. 

Subparagraph B, subsection iii states the following: 

<blockquote> 
the communication is enciphered  or reasonably believed to have a secret meaning
</blockquote> 

Which is in reference to subsection B:

<blockquote>
A covered communication shall not be retained in excess of 5 years, unless
</blockquote>

I'd like to point out to the reader that enciphered implies encrypted. I
would also like to point out that all your bank transactions, all your
logins to websites (such as facebook, gmail), all communications you
assume to be private and untouchable that pass through HTTPS (the green
lock on your browser), can be held for longer than the set forth 5
years. 

This means they can sit around and hold on to your data for as long as
they want. They can attempt to break it, they can do whatever they'd
like with it. This is **not** a good thing. If you can't see the 
repercussions of this little clause slipping in, then ask any
cryptographer about it. Ask about [flaws in pgp], or [flaws in https], or
hell, look at the [papers] where in some cases they can [break RSA].
With a dataset of ALL the 'incidental' information being captured and
kept for long periods of time, do you really want your information being
the testing ground for a new hack? 

The ability to keep information like this is disturbing, and sure, some
of this does depend on what policies the attorney general puts forward,
but still. Negligence does occur within the NSA and other agencys, look
towards anything Ed Snowden has put out for validity of that, I for one,
am going to write my representative and get them to represent what I
think. Won't you?

**Update**  

I just wanted to note Section 302:

<blockquote>
Sec. 302: Restriction on Conduct of intelligence activities.  
The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed to constitute 
authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which is not otherwise authorized
by the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
</blockquote>

This is a giant ball of legalese that's difficult to decipher. Let's note 
the definition of appropriation:

From Google:  
1. The action of taking something for one's own use, typically without the 
owner's permission.  
2. a sum of money or total of assets devoted to a special purpose.

Considering the amount of effort that is taken for writing these bills, is it 
any surprise that a word that doubles both financial agreements, and taking 
something without permission is used? This definition, when taken in light 
with Section 309's blatant disregard of the 4th Amendment of the Constitution is 
chilling. Anyway, one more definition then back to the bill:

From Google: (constitute)  
1. be a part of a whole  
2. give legal or constitutional form to (an institution); establish by law.

In other words, the money taken for this bill won't give permission to do anything
unlawful or in violation of the constitution. Or, read another way: even if 
information is taken without a warrant the money will still be given to the
intelligence community as approved by this bill. In essence, this resolves the 
agency's being given this budget from having the money taken from them should 
they violate the laws.

Legalese is pretty bizarre to interpret as often it seems it can mean multiple 
things. If you happen to be a lawyer or someone well versed in policy law, please
comment below and inform the rest of us what this section means. 

** Update 2 ** 

Well, it's official. [Hr4681 is a law]. As of this writing, there's only 9783 
people on [the petition], and we need a goal of 100,000 signatures to have Obama 
address the issue. I'm updating this on Christmas, because I just found out about 
this (even though I've refreshed the actions page of that bill since the 19th, slow 
update I guess). and I've never felt like lower on a holiday. The only way the 
bill and issue is going to be rectified now, is with a christmas miracle.



[flaws in pgp]:http://www.rossde.com/PGP/pgp_weak.html
[flaws in https]:http://www.zdnet.com/article/google-releases-nogotofail-tool-to-sniff-out-known-https-flaws/
[papers]:http://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/papers/no_rsa_red.pdf
[break RSA]:http://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/papers/RSA-survey.pdf
[Hr4681 is a law]:https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/4681/text
[the petition]:https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/protect-our-privacy-and-please-veto-hr-4681-aka-intelligence-authorization-act-fiscal-year-2015/lln5hN5c