### Changing wp-login to something else in WordPress 3.7

A lot of the time people dislike having wp-login as their url to sign in. Why, I 
don't know, but they do. So if you're really dying to change the sign up url this 
is one way to do it:

#### Step 1. Change .htacess

You'll want to add something like this into your htaccess file:

	RewriteBase /
	RewriteRule ^sign-in$ wp-login.php

This will let your server know to respond to the url and send the information to 
the wp-login page when a request for _sign-in_ comes by.

#### Step 2. Change output of _wp\_login\_url_

	add_filter('login_url', 'wp_login_filterlink', 10,100);
	function wp_login_filterlink($url, $redirect)
	{
		$old  = array( "/(wp-login\.php)/");
 		$new  = array( "sign-in");
 		return preg_replace( $old, $new, $url, 1);	
	}

Adding the above code to your **functions.php** will cause the link used when calling 
the wordpress function `wp_login_url` to use your new url instead of the old.

#### Step 3. Filter the output of _site\_url_

	add_filter('site_url',  'wplogin_filter', 10, 3);
	function wplogin_filter( $url, $path, $orig_scheme )
	{
 		$old  = array( "/(wp-login\.php)/");
 		$new  = array( "sign-in");
 		return preg_replace( $old, $new, $url, 1);
	}

Once again, in **functions.php** add the code above. This will help you out whenever 
the login url is generated by the `site_url` function. It's important to filter 
both `site_url` and `wp_login_url` so that you don't accidently end up linking to 
wp-login, while it won't hurt you to do so, if your goal is to change the URL 
then you want to cover all your bases.

#### Some notes

Even though you're using a new URL, your old wp-login.php address will still work. 
So if you're changing the URL for anything other than aesthetic reasons, you might 
want to look into plugins for your security needs.

