### Changing domain names of javascript and css files in WordPress

Today I was looking through WordPress plugins trying to find a plugin
that updated domain names for resources like images, javascript, and css
to point somewhere else. Mainly, I wanted some javascript and css to be
served from a CDN, and didn't want/need the bloat of something like
[w3tc]. While it's one of the best known plugins and handles _a_ _lot_ 
of functionality, the bugs in it are sometimes disastrously crippling to
a site. 

So, as it often is, I decided to [write my own plugin] to handle what I 
wanted. In order to filter out css and javascript source links, I ended
up hooking into the `style_loader_src` and `script_loader_src` hooks. 

To be honest, you don't need a plugin for this type of functionality, 
openning up your `functions.php` file in your theme and adding the
following would do the same thing:

    add_filter( 'style_loader_src', 'css_js_domain_replace_function');
    add_filter( 'script_loader_src', 'css_js_domain_replace_function');
    function css_js_domain_replace_function($src){
        if( is_admin()  ) return $src;

        $src = str_replace(site_url(), 'maybe-some.cloudfronturl.here', $src);
        return $src;
    }

Though my plugin allows for you to split the domain names for js or css
as well as specify [ignore patterns] so that if you have some css that's
generated by your server or something, you can make sure you _dont_ replace
that particular file's domain.

The plugin is called [Resource Replace] and is available on github for anyone
to use. Granted that they include the MIT License with it and all that other
goodness. 

A note though, if you do not include your javascript and css in the proper
"wordpress way", then this plugin is **not** going to help you. You need
to update your theme to use `wp_euque_*` functions if that's the case. If
you're looking for a solution around that, you can surrounded your `wp_head`
or `get_header` function in output buffering and to a replace on the 
captured string.

[w3tc]:http://wordpress.org/plugins/w3-total-cache/
[write my own plugin]:https://github.com/EdgeCaseBerg/Resource-Replace
[Resource Replace]:https://github.com/EdgeCaseBerg/Resource-Replace
[ignore patterns]:http://www.php.net/preg_match